---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter XVIII : The Truth About Talent (When Genes Count and When They Don't)"
date:   2023-07-25
categories: atomichabits
---
Genes are often important because they help us accomplish certain things. Which means that we'll not always be good at something does not mean that we are terrible at it, it's just the genes, and sometimes they put us in different boxes.

It makes no sense to continue in a job that only causes us pain. Therefore, we have to make a difference in what is easy for us, and work on it. It doesn't matter so much whether we like it or not. What we find easy for us is often difficult for others. We have to know what makes us really good, not continue to follow what others have assimilated to us. You do this a lot because you don't know which way to go, it's like you can do everything but nothing seems to complete you. Ask yourself what's good for you? The answer will show up eventually.

Not only genes but luck can also make a difference. But keep in mind that everything can become easier if you do something you are capable of, that your natural abilities cohabit. It works in your genes, the fact that when you were younger, for example, you felt smarter is because you had the habit of studying almost always; your genes are that you learn quickly, but the fact that you don't know how to accept the mistake makes you a lil loser, work more in this field. Indeed, creating games can be a great help, sometimes we understand better with our own point of view, images or not. Be creative, create your own ways.
