---
title:  "Chapter XV : The golden rule of behavior change"
date:   2023-07-22
categories: atomichabits
---
The habit is simple to make. it is only necessary to have a good strategy and follow it. One of the things that humans like, is to do something that gives them, above all, pleasure. Why ? Because it feels good.

When starting a new habit, that you think it is difficult, try to add something that gives you pleasure. Like the last time you set yourself the goal that if you get a good grade, you'll use the money to buy something that makes you happy. And you used the rule of hours, within a few hours if you don't need that outfit so don't buy it, and put that money aside. That money will be used for something else.

But the big problem with a good habit is the fact that we only have the reward in the future. Different from the bad habit that the reward is already in the present, but it's result will only appear in the future, which leaves us with that feeling of relief at the moment, of not worrying.

As he says in the book, what is rewarded is repeated, and what is punished is avoided. The anxiety you have doesn't let you do much, but that feeling of not having to go through these things seems to be better, those seconds of good feeling seem to be more rewarding.

It's difficul for us to accept the postponed return, but we all do it for other stuff, like when we work, the salary we only receive it at the end of the month, the same with the physical exercises, so what is the matter to not wait? Those seconds of gratification won't last into the future, so make good choices. We are unfortunately programmed for fast sensations at the moment. But the vital aspect of maintaining a good habit is that feeling of success, even if it's little. We will only have the impression that the habit served, when we see that reward. But good habits have to do with sacrifices. And that's what will enforce your identity.
