---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter XIV : How to make good habits inevitable and bad habits impossible"
date:   2023-07-21
categories: atomichabits
---
To fix bad habits it's not that easy. So we must make them difficult, the most the best. For exemple if you have to study the best thing is to give someone your phone or let it in another room. This way there's no need for you to touch it or miss it.

That school, you were enthousiastic to go at the beginning, and you knew that after some weeks, the urge to go is gone. Just try it, it's not for free, so I hope you hang on until the end. THe last time money was on the table too, but didn't change anything. I would say yeah but you were not really good mentally, but actually nothing changed since the last time. I'm not gonna lie, I'm scared. I don't want to feel indebted again, I feel like I'm running out of time. But everything is going to be okay because it's a good habits you'll try to achieve. Going back to the subject, the key is to make a good habit unbreakable, it was simple to start, but must be very difficult to stop, must give us much work, so we don't stop it, and just face it.

The best way to break a bad habit is to make it impractical by increasing resistance. So there will be no chance of doing so. And, the secret to have good habits is to give yourself good reasons to be, and preapre the environment to that. Coming home after a exausting day and see your stuff messy, will make you mad. Choosing a good habit today, will be a reward in the future. Make those habits automatics. You see before, you had neck pain while sleeping. But after buying a new pillow and changing your sleeping position you got better, same with the curtains. That was a good decision, because till today the neck pain just left. Technology is also a big help, after 10pm all the notifications in your phone are off, you can sleep without knowing what is happening around you.

A compromise mechanism is a choice we make in the present and ensures better behavior in the future. Make a good choice for once.
