---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter VI : Motivation is overrated : the things that surround us count more"
date:   2023-07-11
categories: atomichabits
---
If there's a goal we want to attempt, we must fix things in our behavior.Sometimes we buy stuff because we keep watching ads about it, because the world wants to influene us. We don't need those things, it's a fleeting desire. Our environment it's an invisible hand that shapes us, even if we are all different people, with different personalities, we are build to do the same things sometimes. A commun way to change it, is to start not with the inside, but the outside.

Start creating your own environment. To not forget something, the best way is to put it in a visible place. If tomorrow I must do my hair, I prepare the table with hair's stuff. But it's not all, choosing the places to do certain things is also important as the habit itself. For example, studying in the bed, feels terrible. Because the bed is supposed to be the calm place to sleep or relax. So it's impossible to study well in it, the bedroom itself can cause difficulties, but not the same as the bed. Using our phones to study, same thing, a notification and we find ourselves in twitter reading some stuff about a coq.

You notice that places in our house have their own context, each place has a personality and fonctions. The cue is not to place objects everywhere, but to create relationships with them, see them as full of interactions. Each place in the house must have an assignment. If you can't concentrate in an old place with old habits, try a new one, and create new habits on it!
