---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter XVI : How to keep good habits day after day"
date:   2023-07-23
categories: jekyll update
---
One of the ways to follow a new habit is to write it down whenever you do it. In this way you can clearly follow which days you made the said habit. Recording the habit makes us more confident, because we feel proud of doing the same thing for days and days. And it is something honest and evident, because at the end of the week, we will see whether or not we did what we should have done. The motivation happens because we feel the progress, and so we are excited to continue, it is something that attracts us, and that does not let us make the mistake of giving up. So, the most important thing is the fact that we feel good about ourselves for having managed to keep the line, this gratification is our own.

The only problem with registrations, is that we have to do it. Add more work than we already have with the habit. So, as long as you finish a habit, write it down directly, stack it so it doesn't look so tiring. Unfortunately, sometimes we tend to forget to do the said habit, you have to keep in mind that this can happen due to some event or fatigue, it is normal. But once you make a mistake, it can't be repeated a second time. once is an accident, 2 means you are creating a new habit. We have to understand that what we are creating are not just habits, but our identity. Do at least one line, at least one turn, but do something.

Whenever we register the habit, we will be more and more focused on that instead of our first purpose, tends to be bad. So the most important thing is to focus on the habit.
